CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines
Shared Task on Person-Place Relation Extraction from
Historical Documents
v.2025-12-04

HIPE-2026 Team:
Juri Opitz, Maud Ehrmann, Simon Clematide,
Corina Raclé, Emanuela Boros, Andrianos Michail, Matteo Romanello

Contents
1 Person–Place Relation Extraction from Multilingual Historical Texts

2

2 Task Description

2

3 Data

5

4 Evaluation Campaign and System Responses

8

5 Submission Instructions

9

6 Evaluation

10

7 CLEF Workshop and Notebook Papers

13

A Data Preparation

15

Useful Links
• HIPE-2026 website: https://hipe-eval.github.io/HIPE-2026/
• Google Group: https://groups.google.com/g/hipe-2026
• HIPE-2026 data: https://github.com/hipe-eval/hipe-2026-data
• HIPE-2026 evaluation: https://github.com/hipe-eval/hipe-2026-eval

1

HIPE Team

1

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

Person–Place Relation Extraction from Multilingual
Historical Texts

HIPE-2026 is a CLEF Evaluation Lab dedicated to the extraction of person–place relations
in multilingual historical documents. A person-place relation corresponds to a semantic
link between an individual and a location as evidenced in a document. Such relations may
indicate where a person is said to be at a given moment, where they lived or worked,
or places connected to notable moments in their life (e.g., birthplaces, residences, visits,
travel destinations). Together, these relations can support the reconstruction of individuals’
geographical and temporal trajectories.
Detecting these implicit or explicit, spatio-temporal relations cannot be achieved through
simple document co-occurrence of entity mentions. Rather, it requires temporal reasoning,
geographical inference, and interpretation of noisy historical texts–often with sparse or indirect contextual cues–to detect and qualify person–place relations with appropriate degrees
of certainty.
The objective of HIPE-2026 is to advance the automatic detection of such relations,
enabling the reconstruction of individuals’ movements in space and time and the tracing
of life trajectories in support of digital humanities scholarship. The task is designed to
be approachable by both generative AI systems (LLMs) and more traditional classification
models.

2

Task Description

In essence, participants are tasked with developing systems that determine the nature of the
relationship implied by each person-place pair in a historical document. Each pair consists
of two entities, one person and one location, each of which appears in the text through one
or more mentions. Specifically, systems must establish whether the text indicates that the
person is currently at that place within the document’s temporal horizon (a recency-oriented
isAt relation), suggests that the person was at that place at some point in time (a more
general at relation), or provides no meaningful evidence linking the person and the place.
As illustrated in Figure 1, the isAt relation is bounded in time and close to the document
publication date, while the at relation is only right-bounded by the publication date: the
relation could hold for any time in the past, but naturally not in the future. The next
sections provide a more detailed and formal definition of the task.

2.1

Terminology

Before defining the sub-tasks, we introduce the terminology. Each term corresponds to fields
in the data structure presented in Section 3.2.
• context: The full text of a document or passage together with its metadata (for
example, newspaper title, language, publication date).

2

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

Figure 1: Schematic representation of the two person-place relation types.

• person: An entity, represented by a cluster of mentions in a document, referring to a
specific person.
• location: An entity, represented by a cluster of mentions in a document, referring to
a specific location. We use the terms ‘location‘ and ‘place‘ interchangeably.
• (person, location): A pair consisting of one person entity and one location entity
drawn from the same document. Not all possible pairs are included in order to avoid
excessively large candidate sets.
• at: A relation type indicating that the text provides evidence that the person was at
the location at some point in time.
• isAt: A temporally narrower relation type indicating that the text suggests the person
is at the location within the temporal horizon of the news document (e.g., the time of
reporting).
• system: A system developed by participants that, given a context, a (person, location)
pair, and a candidate relation type, assigns a label to that candidate relation.

2.2

Sub-tasks

The shared task comprises two sub-tasks, each defined by one of the two relation types that
systems must classify.
Sub-task definition: at relation
Given a context and a (person − location) pair, the general at relation captures whether
the context implies that the person was at that place at any point in time. Systems should
perform the following classification:

3

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines


true if the context provides




explicit evidence that the person




was at the place at some point in





time.




 

probable if this can be inferred
system context, (person, location), at =

from implicit cues in the context




and is thus a likely assumption.







false if no evidence is present or





the context contradicts such relation.
Sub-task definition: isAt relation
Given a context and a (person, location) pair, the temporally narrower isAt relation captures whether the context implies that the person was at that place within the document’s
temporal horizon. Systems will perform the following classification:

true if the person is located




 
at the place shortly before the
system context, (person, location), isAt = document’s publication time.





false if this is not the case.
Temporal window for isAt. By definition, isAt = true means there is evidence the
person was at the location up to about one month before the publication date. Outside this
window, it should be set to false.
Relation between at and isAt. The isAt relation is a temporal refinement of at: it
captures whether the at relation holds shortly before or at the time of publication. The
following constraints apply. If at is false, then assigning true to isAt would be inconsistent. If at is true or probable, isAt further specifies whether the person’s presence falls
within the document’s temporal horizon.
For example, if an article reports a current visit of a US President to Berlin, then the
relation between the president and Berlin is labeled as at and isAt. By contrast, if the
article refers to a past trip (“Last year, the president visited Berlin.”), only at applies, since
the event lies outside the temporal horizon of the document.
For simplicity, however, the shared task evaluates the two relations independently.

4

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

3

Data

3.1

Data Overview

HIPE-2026 data consists of two sets of data: historical newspaper articles in French, German,
and English spanning roughly 200 years (19C-20C), and literary documents in French. The
newspaper material–originating from European and US library collections–composes the
core dataset of the shared task and is released as training, development, and test sets (‘Test
A’). The literary documents are reserved as a surprise test set (‘Test B’) to evaluate systems’
robustness and generalization on out-of-domain data.
The historical newspaper data is derived from the entity-annotated HIPE-2022 material
and includes only those datasets that contain person and location annotations. Data has
been prepared and newly annotated for the present shared task. The literary surprise set has
likewise been newly curated. Appendix 7 details the preparation of the historical newspaper
data, while a description of the surprise set preparation will be released after the evaluation
campaign.

3.2

Data Representation and Contents

Data are represented according to a dedicated JSON schema1 and stored as JSON Lines
(.jsonl) files, where each line corresponds to one document. Each file contains a collection of
documents belonging to a single language (German, French, or English). These documents
correspond to individual historical newspaper articles or literary text chunks, represented
independently. Every document consists of four main components presented below and
illustrated in Figure 2:
• Metadata keys provide contextual information about the document and includes:
– document_id: a unique identifier for the document;
– media, including:
∗ publication_title;
∗ time_period: the year interval spanned by the media sample in the dataset;
∗ source_type: e.g. “newspaper”;
– source: data path in the original material;
– language: the language of the document (one of de, fr, or en);
– date: the article’s publication date.
• The text key contains the full text of the document. This is the context within which
persons and locations are mentioned, and from which systems must infer whether
person–place relations hold.
• The sampled_pairs list contains person–location pairs selected for annotation. Each
pair entry includes:
1 https://github.com/hipe-eval/HIPE-2026-data/blob/main/schemas/hipe-2026-data.schema.json

5

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

{ "document_id": "NZZ-1798-12-12-a-p0003",
"media": {
"publication_title": "Neue Zürcher Zeitung",
"time_period": "1780-1950",
"source_type": "Newspaper"
},
"source": "v2.1/hipe2020/de/HIPE-2022-v2.1-hipe2020-dev-de.tsv",
"language": "de",
"date": "1798-12-12",
"text": "(...) Der be\nkannte Irländer Theobald Wolfe Tone, den man auf
,→
der\nBompartschen Eskader gefangen nahm, ward von einem\nKriegsgericht zum Tode
,→
verurtheilt. Er hörte sein Ur\ntheil mit Standhaftigkeit an , und verlangte nur,
,→
daß\nman ihn, seiner franz. Uniform halber, erschießen soll\nte. Da ihm das
,→
versagt ward, verwundete er sich mit\neinem Messer so, daß er schwerlich aufkommen
,→
wird. —\nDie von Nelson bey Abukir Lissabon angekommen; nur das Schif (...)",
"sampled_pairs": [
{
"pers_entity_id": "NZZ-1798-12-12-a-p0003_Q83235",
"pers_wikidata_QID": "Q83235",
"pers_mentions_list": ["Nelsons", "Nelson", "Adm. Nelson", "Baron Nelson vom\nNil
,→
und Burnharm Torpe"
],
"loc_entity_id": "NZZ-1798-12-12-a-p0003_Q12783927",
"loc_wikidata_QID": "Q12783927",
"loc_mentions_list": ["Abukir"],
"at": "TRUE",
"at_explanation": "(...)",
"isAt": "FALSE",
"isAt_explanation": "(...)"
},
{
"pers_entity_id": "NZZ-1798-12-12-a-p0003_Q335205",
"pers_wikidata_QID": "Q335205",
(...)

Figure 2: Example of a HIPE-2026 input document. Key values are shortened for
readability. In the training and development sets, the at/isAt fields contain gold labels,
whereas in the test set they are set to null. Systems must predict the values for at and
isAt, and may optionally provide explanations via the *_explanation fields.

6

HIPE Team

Data Source

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

Lang.

Split

Lang.

1,974
3,055
827

train

13

180

4
77

64
1,097

#Docs

#Pairs

hipe2020

de
fr
en

146
214
94

sonar

de

newseye

de
fr

letemps

fr

256

3,470

Total

–

804

10,667

#Docs

#Pairs

de
fr
en

97
328
56

1,345
4,521
501

dev

de
fr
en

32
109
18

432
1,557
148

test

de
fr
en

34
110
20

441
1,544
178

804

10,667

Total

Table 1: HIPE-2026 historical newspaper dataset statistics per data source (left) and per
language split (right). Values reflect pre–manual-annotation counts and represent upper
bounds; final released data will contain less pairs.

– pers_entity_id and loc_entity_id: unique identifiers of the entities;
– pers_wikidata_QID and loc_wikidata_QID: Wikidata identifiers, when available;
– pers_mentions_list and loc_mentions_list: lists of mentions for the entities;
– at and isAt: relation labels (gold value in training/dev; null in test/surprise);
– at_explanation and isAt_explanation: optional explanations for the assigned
labels.

3.3

Data Splits and Statistics

For the historical newspaper data, training, development, and test sets are provided. For
the literary data, only the surprise test set is released. Table 1 reports statistics for the
prepared data (prior to full manual annotation at the time of publication), and therefore
reflects the upper bound on the number of person–place pairs that will be available. This
section will be updated in next version of the guidelines.

3.4

Data releases

The HIPE-2026-data directory is organized per dataset, release version and language, as
shown in Figure 3.
• There is one UTF-8 encoded, .jsonl file per language and split.
• All files, including system submissions, adhere to the same JSON schema.
• Files are named according to this schema:
HIPE-2026-<hipeversion>-impresso-<split>-<language>.jsonl, where the value
of split can be sample, train, dev, or test.

7

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

• HIPE-2022 releases are versioned with a two-part version number (Major.Minor)
present in 1) the data directory structure and 2) the filename of each file.
• Each HIPE-2026 release has an equivalent git repository release, with release notes.

Figure 3: HIPE-2026 release data directory structure.

4

Evaluation Campaign and System Responses

4.1

Evaluation Campaign General Rules

• Registration is open until 23 April 2026. Please refer to the HIPE timeline for more
information.
• The evaluation period runs from Tue 5 May 2026, 10 a.m. (CEST) to Thu 7 May
2026 8 p.m (CEST). At the beginning of this period, input test files for all languages
and the surprise test set will be released on the hipe-data-2026 repository. At the
end of the evaluation period, participants must send their system responses via email
to the submission email (see below). Gold-standard data will be released after the
publication of the evaluation results.
• Teams may submit up to three runs per language.
• Teams must provide predictions for all input test files (Test A for all languages +
surprise Test B).
• Teams may use any external resources (e.g. additional language resources available
elsewhere or homemade, and other annotated data).

8

HIPE Team

5

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

Submission Instructions

Participants are required to submit system responses in JSONL format, conforming to
the HIPE-2026 schema. Each response file corresponds to a system run and must include
predictions for all documents of a given input test set.

5.1

Submission Task Overview

Each test input file contains a list of documents, each with sampled person–location pairs.
For each such pair, systems must:
• Replace null values in the at field with one of: "TRUE", "PROBABLE", or "FALSE".
• Replace null values in the isAt field with either: "TRUE" or "FALSE".
• Optionally, provide a textual explanation by filling the corresponding at_explanation
and isAt_explanation fields.
Important: Any missing documents, or null label left in the at or isAt fields at
submission time will be interpreted as "FALSE" during evaluation.

5.2

Task Scope

• Both sub-tasks (at, isAt) are evaluated on the historical newspaper Test A.
• Only the at sub-task is evaluated on the surprise Test B (literary domain).
• Systems must return predictions for all languages of Test A. The surprise test set B
is evaluated separately.
• Teams may submit up to three runs per test set (maximum of 6 runs in total for both
test sets A and B).

5.3

File Format and Schema Compliance

Each system run must be submitted as a single UTF-8 encoded .jsonl file that:
• Mirrors the structure and document ordering of the input test file.
• Preserves all document and entity metadata.
• Adheres strictly to the HIPE-2026 data schema hipe-2026-data.schema.json

9

HIPE Team

5.4

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

File Naming and Packaging

• Response files must be named using the following pattern:
teamname_<inputfile>_runX.jsonl
where teamname is your registered CLEF team name, and runX is one of run1, run2,
or run3.
• All run files must be packaged into a single ZIP archive named:
teamname.zip
• Submit the ZIP archive via email to: hipe-2026-submission@listes.epfl.ch
• You will receive a confirmation of receipt.

5.5

Validator and Support Tools

Participants are encouraged to use the provided:
• JSON Schema validator to check formatting and schema compliance.
• Scorer tool to compute macro Recall and verify system behavior.
Both tools are available in the hipe-2026-eval repository.

6

Evaluation

Three evaluation profiles are considered:
1. The accuracy profile rewards high-performance systems, encouraging exploration of
frontier models, advanced prompt engineering, or agentive approaches.
2. The efficiency profile promotes lightweight, scalable methods, including smaller
LLMs or task-specific classifiers.
3. The generalization profile tests system accuracy on a surprise test set in a non-news
domain, based on the at-relation only.

6.1

Accuracy Evaluation Profile

Metric
We evaluate system responses per test set using macro Recall (also known as balanced
accuracy). Macro Recall is defined as follows:
1. For each label ℓ in the label set L, compute its recall:
Recall(ℓ) =

#examples with label ℓ correctly predicted
.
#examples whose gold label is ℓ
10

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

2. The final score is the arithmetic mean of the per-label recalls:
1 X
MacroRecall =
Recall(ℓ).
|L|
ℓ∈L

This metric is highly interpretable and ensures that all labels contribute equally, regardless of class imbalance [8, 7].
Interpretation of null value An at or isAt label value of null means “system makes
no assertion.” During evaluation, any null is converted to false for both at and isAt.
Evaluation of Test A
The Main Test A evaluates each sub-task independently, both scored with macro Recall:
• at: A 3-class classification problem, evaluated using macro Recall (|L| = 3).
• isAt: A 2-class classification problem, evaluated using macro Recall (|L| = 2).
The global test score for Test A is computed as follows:
GlobalScoreA =

MacroRecallAt + MacroRecallisAt
.
2

The scorer is applied separately to:
1. the predictions for the at sub-task,
2. the predictions for the isAt sub-task.
It then automatically computes and reports:
• the macro Recall for each sub-task, and
• the global average score defined above.

6.2

Accuracy-Efficiency Evaluation Profile with Main Test Set B

HIPE-2026 features a pilot evaluation that balances system accuracy with efficiency and
resource usage. This is motivated by the increasing cost of running very large models and,
in our case, by the scale of digitized material together with the quadratic nature of the task
(person–location pairs). We aim to understand how efficient and scalable approaches can
be designed. To this end, we will survey participant teams for the following two types of
efficiency information:
1. Parameter Count Params(s): the total number of model parameters.
2. Model Size Size(s): the disk footprint of the deployed model (in MB or GB).
These dimensions capture two aspects of model efficiency: conceptual complexity (parameter count) and storage or deployment cost (model size). Both metrics must be reported
by participants following the provided guidelines.
11

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

Scoring and Ranking
We design a robust accuracy-efficiency metric. Let S be the set of submitted systems. For
each dimension d ∈ {Params, Size, Acc}, where Acc denotes the system’s official accuracy
metric (macro Recall), each system receives a rank rd (s):
rd (s) = rank of system s on dimension d,
with lower ranks indicating better performance (1 = best). For efficiency dimensions, smaller
values are strictly preferred (fewer parameters, smaller model size).
The final composite score for system s is the arithmetic mean of its ranks across the
three dimensions:

1
R(s) =
rAcc (s) + rParam (s) + rSize (s) .
3
The systems are globally ordered by increasing R(s).
Worked Example
Consider three hypothetical systems with the following properties:
System
s2
s3

Accuracy

Parameter Count

Model Size

0.79
0.77

350M
1.3B

1.2 GB
5.0 GB

Step 1: Ranking each dimension.
Accuracy ranks:

rAcc (s1 ) = 1, rAcc (s2 ) = 2, rAcc (s3 ) = 3.

Param. count ranks (fewer is better):

rParam (s2 ) = 1, rParam (s3 ) = 2, rParam (s1 ) = 3.

Model size ranks (smaller is better):

rSize (s2 ) = 1, rSize (s3 ) = 2, rSize (s1 ) = 3.

Step 2: Final aggregated score.
1+3+3
= 2.33,
3
2+1+1
= 1.33,
R(s2 ) =
3
3+2+2
R(s3 ) =
= 2.33.
3

R(s1 ) =

Final ordering.
s2 ≺ {s1 , s3 }
System s2 ranks highest overall due to its substantially smaller parameter count and
compact model size, despite not achieving the highest accuracy.

12

HIPE Team

6.3

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

Generalization Profile: Surprise Test B

The Surprise Test B assesses the ability of systems to generalize beyond the historical
newspaper domain. It consists of literary documents that differ in style, genre, and temporal
expression, posing additional challenges for relation extraction.
This evaluation profile includes only the at relation, framed as a 3-class classification
task {true, probable, false}.
Evaluation is conducted using macro Recall, ensuring equal weight across all three
classes regardless of class distribution.
A single scorer run is required. It outputs the following metric:
MacroRecallat
This generalization profile allows for the analysis of system robustness and adaptability
to unseen, non-news textual data.

6.4

Optional LLM Explanations

Explanations (*_explanation) are ignored during scoring and have no influence on any
metric. Participants may use them to understand LLM-based approaches rationale and
discuss them. We may use them to qualitatively analyze and inspect results and present
possible findings in the final overview paper.

6.5

Technical Scoring Procedure

We provide an output validator and a scorer in our GitHub repository. The output validator
checks if the submitted file has the right content and schema, validating it against our JSON
schema. The scorer scores the above measures, and provides an evaluation report that helps
the participants to track system progress.

7

CLEF Workshop and Notebook Papers

Participants will submit a Notebook Paper to be presented during the final HIPE-2026 workshop co-located with the CLEF conference (September 2026) and to be published online via
the CEUR Workshop Proceeding open access publication service. Please check submission
instructions and important dates on the HIPE website. Previous HIPE-eval proceedings are
available: see HIPE-2022 and HIPE-2020.

Acknowledgments and Organisation
The HIPE-2026 organising team expresses its sincere appreciation to the CLEF-2026 Evaluation Lab Organising Committee for the overall coordination and support. HIPE-eval
editions are organised within the framework of the Impresso - Media Monitoring of the Past
project, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation under grant No. CRSII5_213585
and by the Luxembourg National Research Fund under grant No. 17498891.
13

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

HIPE-2026 is organised by Juri Opitz (UZH), Corina Raclé (UZH), Emanuela Boros
(EPFL), Andrianos Michail (UZH), Matteo Romanello (UZH), Maud Ehrmann (EPFL),
Simon Clematide (UZH).

References
[1] M. C. Ardanuy, D. Beavan, K. Beelen, K. Hosseini, J. Lawrence, K. McDonough,
F. Nanni, D. van Strien, and D. C. S. Wilson. A Dataset for Toponym Resolution
in Nineteenth-Century English Newspapers. Journal of Open Humanities Data, 8(0):3,
Jan. 2022.
[2] M. Ehrmann, M. Romanello, A. Flückiger, and S. Clematide. Impresso Named Entity
Annotation Guidelines. Annotation guidelines, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) and Zurich University (UZH), Jan. 2020.
[3] M. Ehrmann, M. Romanello, S. Najem-Meyer, A. Doucet, and S. Clematide. Overview
of HIPE-2022: Named Entity Recognition and Linking in Multilingual Historical Documents. In Experimental IR Meets Multilinguality, Multimodality, and Interaction: 13th
International Conference of the CLEF Association, CLEF 2022, Bologna, Italy, September 5–8, 2022, Proceedings, pages 423–446, Berlin, Heidelberg, Sept. 2022. SpringerVerlag.
[4] A. Hamdi, E. Linhares Pontes, E. Boros, T. T. H. Nguyen, G. Hackl, J. G. Moreno,
and A. Doucet. A Multilingual Dataset for Named Entity Recognition, Entity Linking
and Stance Detection in Historical Newspapers. In Proceedings of the 44th International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages
2328–2334, New York, NY, USA, July 2021. Association for Computing Machinery.
[5] S. Menzel, H. Schnaitter, J. Zinck, V. Petras, C. Neudecker, K. Labusch, E. Leitner,
and G. Rehm. Named Entity Linking mit Wikidata und GND – Das Potenzial handkuratierter und strukturierter Datenquellen für die semantische Anreicherung von Volltexten. In Named Entity Linking mit Wikidata und GND – Das Potenzial handkuratierter
und strukturierter Datenquellen für die semantische Anreicherung von Volltexten, pages
229–258. De Gruyter Saur, Oct. 2021.
[6] S. Menzel, J. Zinck, H. Schnaitter, and V. Petras. Guidelines for Full Text Annotations
in the SoNAR (IDH) Corpus. July 2021.
[7] J. Opitz. A closer look at classification evaluation metrics and a critical reflection of common evaluation practice. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
12:820–836, 06 2024.
[8] F. Sebastiani. An Axiomatically Derived Measure for the Evaluation of Classification
Algorithms. In Proceedings of the 2015 international conference on the theory of information retrieval, pages 11–20, 2015.

14

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

A

Data Preparation

A.1

HIPE-2022 historical newspaper data

Historical newspaper data is derived from the entity-annotated HIPE-2022 material2 and
includes only those datasets that contain person and location annotations, that is to say:
hipe2020, newseye, sonar, and letemps.
These datasets consists of historical newspaper material in French, German and English
annotated with named entity mentions, each linked to a Wikidata unique identifier (QID)
or a NIL entry. For more information on the HIPE-2022 dataset, please refer to [3] for
the overview, to [5, 6, 4, 1] for the primary datasets, and to the Impresso named entity
annotation guidelines [2].
Starting from HIPE-2022, the preparation of the HIPE-2026 data involves extracting and
annotating person–location pairs, and restructuring information in a format better suited
for large language model-assisted approaches. The main preparation steps were as follows:
1. File management and representation transformation: The original HIPE-2022
data splits are ignored, and all documents are regrouped per language, regardless
of their dataset of origin. The tabular separated source files (.tsv), which encode
named entity information using the IOB tagging scheme, are converted into JSON
representations following a JSON schema and stored as JSON line files. Only the
relevant information is retained: document metadata, full text, and all entity mentions
of type person and location with their offsets, surface forms, and Wikidata QID or
NIL value.
2. Grouping of mentions into entities: Mentions sharing the same QID are grouped
into a single entity object. NIL mentions are grouped either with other NIL mentions
or merged into non-NIL entities when their surface form exceeds a 75% Levenshtein
similarity threshold. After this stage, every mention is assigned to one entity object,
that has a unique ID (either Wikidata QID or a newly made one for merged NIL).
Sanity checks and statistics are computed, and overly long documents are filtered out.
3. Extraction of candidate person–location pairs: Person–location pairs are generated at the entity level (each entity object already aggregates all its mentions). For
every document, the cross-product of person and location is computed. From this set,
a subset of pairs is sampled using a proximity-based score: the minimum number of
tokens between any person mention and any location mention. This ensures that most
selected pairs are in close textual proximity, while still retaining a few long-distance
pairs. The resulting data conforms to the final JSON schema.
4. Person–location relation annotation: Candidate pairs are pre-annotated using
an LLM and then manually reviewed and corrected collaboratively.
2 In its version v2.1 available here: https://github.com/hipe-eval/HIPE-2022-data/tree/main/data/
v2.1

15

HIPE Team

CLEF HIPE-2026: Participation Guidelines

5. Final dataset creation: Dataset splits are assembled and packaged for release using
the final JSON schema.

A.2

Literary data

Information will be published after the evaluation campaign.

16

